---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Methodology

The analytical process will focus on creating visual representations of the data to elucidate the patterns and characteristics of sexual violence in the United States.

### Horizontal Bar Chart of Reporting Percentages

Firstly, a horizontal bar chart will be constructed using the NCVS data to compare the reporting percentages of different violent crimes, including rape and sexual assault. The aim is to highlight the discrepancy in reporting rates between sexual violence and other crimes. This visualization will be created by extracting the relevant data on reported crimes from the NCVS datasets. The bar chart will present a clear, comparative visual that conveys the reporting percentages in a manner that is immediately accessible to the reader.

### Pie Chart of Victim Age Demographics

To illustrate the age demographics of victims, a pie chart will be developed to display the percentage of minors among the victims of sexual violence, drawing on the NCVS data. The chart will segment the victim population into minors and adults, thereby emphasizing the vulnerability of younger individuals to sexual crimes. This will be based on the age information available in the NCVS data, highlighting the significance of the issue among youth.

### Visualization of Assault Locations

The research will incorporate a pre-existing visualization from RAINN that details the breakdown of locations where sexual assaults occur. Including this in the report will contextualize the environments in which sexual violence is most likely to occur and underline the proximity of risk to victims' personal spaces.

### Vertical Bar Chart of Perpetrator Relationship to Victim

Additionally, a vertical chart will be crafted to represent the relationship between victims and perpetrators. This data will be visually represented to communicate the prevalence of acquaintance violence within the scope of sexual crimes. This chart will be generated by analyzing the NCVS data that records the relationship of the perpetrator to the victim, which will substantiate the point that sexual violence is often perpetrated by someone within the victim's social circle.